---
title: "SoccerMate: A Personal Soccer Attribute Profiler using Wearables."
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/bica-2017
excerpt: ''
venue: 'PerCom'
citation: H M Sajjad Hossain, '<b>Md Abdullah Al Hafiz Khan</b>, Nirmalya Roy. In Proceeding of First International Workshop on Behavioral Implications of Contextual Analytics (BICA) (co-located with PerCom 2017). Kona, Big Island of Hawaii, USA.'
---

<script>
function goBack() {
  window.history.back()
}
</script>

<button onclick="goBack()">Go Back</button>

[Download PDF](https://ahafizk.github.io/files/SoccerMate.pdf)

<b>Abstract:</b>

 The use of smartphone and wearable devices in
various sporting events is an optimistic opportunity to profile
player’s physical fitness and physiological health conditioning
attributes. Recently a variety of commercial wearables with
respect to different sports are available in the market. As these
wearables differ for distinctive sports, it becomes a hassle to
effectively profile them for multiple sports sessions in day to
day practice events. Wrist worn devices like smartwatches are
becoming a trend in sports analytics recently and researchers
are leveraging them to infer various contexts of the players to
improve the quality, tactics, strategy of playing matches against
the opponents. Visual observation is the most popular way to
track a player’s abilities in soccer, but as a player it is not
always possible to self-assess your own strengths and weaknesses
in a field. In this paper, we propose to exploit the wrist worn
devices with built in accelerometer to help represent attributes
of technical judgement, tactical awareness and physical aspects
of a soccer player. We propose to use deep learning to build
our classification model which analyzes different soccer events
like in-possession, pass, kick, sprint, run and dribbling. Based
on these soccer events, we evaluate the overall ability of a soccer
player. Our experiments show that, these wearable technology
guided attributes profiling can help a coach or scout to better
understand the competence of a player in addition to traditional
visual observation.